GMless play - typically the GM is the one most interested in the game, if the GM drops one of the other players can take over as GM and run their own game, but this almost never happens as the players are more there for a ride than to drive the game.  My hope is that with this more collaborative style game, that players will be more willing to take the lead rather than be along for the ride.  I can see a mode where there is a rotation of GM's with each building upon what has gone before. It will take a mindset shift rather than a mechanical one in my estimation.

Advancement - story aspects stated as a question or problem?  With 3 or 4 of these stated out in the open, short medium and long term goals and milestones are obvious. This will help with the GM drop out problem as well.  I can see a couple of story aspects that relate to all the players and 1 or two for each character.  They may not all get touched on in every scehe, but each player will then be invested in discovering what the resolution of their story aspects are. This could be part of game setup with the players and GM brainstorming within the constraints of what the initial gm wants to explore - setting, genre, etc.  Rewards would be Fate style - major and minor milestones depending on the size of the question or problem.

Suitability for PBP - the biggest time sink in pbp play is communication lag. This makes it very difficult for detailed negotiation to go on. The back and forth will kill a game. Rather than this, allow players to assert facts without contest and incorporate them into the game. This will take a change in mindset for the GM to let go some control of his world and trust that the players won't go off the deep end. The players must be trustworthy in this regard.  GM can only counter fact assertion with reward of some game token that represents future narrative control.  As for resolution mechanic, I'd suggest that any action that the GM feels requires a roll should have a Test count put into the post or a descriptive that indicates how many successes the GM thinks will be required. That way the player knows before they post a roll and can describe appropriately. This will also require the GM to be specific about intent, task breakdown and difficulty.  Doing it this way reduces the lag by not requiring interpretation by both parties, but only one.  Once again the GM is going to have to trust the players and the players will have to be responsible as they take more power onto themselves.

Simplicity to start, layered with complexity as system becomes more familiar - I like this idea quite a bit. Was thinking of having the system be more descriptive than prescriptive. Not having a lot of resolution detail in the system, rather leave to the GM and players to put detail in as desired. What kind of modules and to what purpose?

Granularity - does the game mechanically describe swing by swing combat and sentence by sentence diplomatic interactions or is it broken down by intent - quick mook fights can be a single opposed roll with the result narrated. Longer more climactic conflicts can be represented by a decaying pool - narrated and described as the rolls continue.  It may be that one group wants to do it one way and another the opposite, both are within the scope of play.

On the subject of complexity - I think magic system would be one of those add on modules. Magic can be defined as suits a campaign and customized without breaking anything basic in the system. In addition, power levels can be defined as needed in the campaign.
